Top 10 benefits of Low-code development - CloudTern Solutions
Top 10 benefits of Low-code development
June 11, 2021
by
admin
Blog
Low-code application development is quickly gaining momentum in recent times. Whether it is business users who want to create an app for a specific need or professional developers who want to quickly add features and deploy products faster, all stakeholders of the IT landscape are looking towards low-code development. The rapid growth of Mendix low-code app development platform speaks volumes about this trend. Mendix has reached $100 million annual recurring revenues as of Sep 2020. The company is envisaging to double this number within 18 months.
Low-code app development platforms offer several advantages to organizations. Here are the top 10 benefits of low-code app development.
1) Accelerate Digital Transformation
Today, every organization is embarking on a digital transformation journey. Low-code development accelerates this process by bringing citizen development into the picture. With citizen development, everyone in the team, regardless of their coding skills, can become a part of the software team and quickly build quality apps.
2) Build Customer-centric Products for Improved Customer Experience
By bringing the concerned staff into the application development project, businesses can build and deliver customer-centric products that improve customer experience. For instance, when you are building medical software, nurses and technicians will have a better idea of what customers require than a software engineer who doesn’t have medical knowledge. As such, organizations can build customer-centric products.
3) Increased Productivity
When IT and non-IT teams come together to build apps, it increases productivity. Whether it is visually astonishing designs or feature-rich products, organizations can build and deploy the product in minutes. It increases deployment cycles as well.
4) Reduced Costs
Low-code app development eliminates the need for experienced coders to fully develop an application. While citizen developers build the app, professional developers will add advanced features, customizations, integrations etc. As such, products are quickly built and thereby development costs are significantly reduced. In addition, businesses can save the costs of hiring and managing a full team of professional software developers.
5) Shortage of Skilled Developers
Today, the IT industry is facing a dearth of skilled IT professionals. The proliferation of smartphones brought a need for thousands of mobile apps. However, the industry is not able to match the number of IT professionals with the app development requirements. Low-code development solves this challenge by bringing citizen developers on board.
6) Removing silos between IT and business
Dealing with silos between IT and business has been one of the biggest challenges for management for decades. As DevOps tries to bridge this gap, low-code development compliments DevOps by bringing business teams and IT teams onto the same platform.
7) Dealing with shadow IT
One of the important concerns for security teams is shadow IT. It is a term used to describe the problem of employees using systems, laptops, applications and mobile devices without the approval of the IT department. The increasing use of cloud-based apps and smartphones adds up to this challenge. Shadow IT brings security vulnerabilities in the form of compliance violations, data leaks, system crashes etc. With low-code development, all devices used by the employees will be operating on IT-approved platforms which means IT teams have better visibility and control over shadow IT. Moreover, businesses can drive innovation and increase productivity with shadow IT while eliminating security concerns.
8) Meet changing business IT needs
Today, business IT requirements are rapidly changing. As such, businesses are required to closely monitor changing business trends and realign strategies accordingly. When new opportunities are identified, businesses should be able to quickly tap into them and cannot wait till the prototyping goes through the traditional development model. Using citizen developer services, businesses can quickly build prototypes, test them and then pass on the prototypes to the development teams for optimization and improvisation.
9) Reduced Maintenance
Apps built using low-code development platforms generate fewer bugs as they are built on standardized and pretested platforms. As the platform automatically generates the code, errors are minimized and the quality of code is enhanced. As such, testing and maintenance burdens are significantly reduced, enabling developers to focus more on the quality of the product.
10) Modernizing Legacy Apps
Legacy apps can become a burden for an organization over some time. Low-code development platforms enable you to integrate legacy infrastructure with the cloud-native architecture and enjoy the same business value with increased scalability and availability. You can easily and cost-effectively modernize legacy apps and future-proof IT processes.
Low-code application development is the new norm in IT circles in recent times. Businesses that quickly embrace the low-code trend are sure to surge ahead!
IoT
Share
Related Posts
September 4, 2024
Blog
AI Innovation with AWS Infrastructure and Managed Services
August 30, 2024
Blog
Revolutionizing Logistics with IoT: Tracking, Fleet Management, and Automation
August 6, 2024
Blog
Transforming Retail: Generative AI and IoT in Supply Chain
Prev
Next
CloudTern offers highly scalable software solutions that enable organizations to securely drive innovation into business processes
Contacts
+1 (945) 216-6923
info@cloudtern.com
8105 Rasor Blvd Ste 236
Plano, TX – 75024
Linkedin-in
Twitter
Instagram
Services
Quick Links
© 2025 — CloudTern. All Rights Reserved.