Self Service Portal for MVNOs - CloudTern Solutions
Self Service Portal for MVNOs
Project Name
Self Service Portal for MVNOs
Client
MVNE PaaS provider Belgium
Our Role
Build a self-service portal
A Belgium-based MVNE PaaS provider chose CloudTern to build a self-service portal for its customers. CloudTern built an amazing portal with an intuitive interface, great design, and a personal touch that delivered a positive customer experience.
The Challenge
Digitalization has revolutionized the way businesses operate procedures and engage with customers. The recent Covid-19 pandemic has accelerated this digital adoption.
As more and more customers started getting accustomed to online shopping and communication, self-service became a key requirement. Today, customers are not willing to wait in queues or contact support staff to get regular tasks done.
Customers are expecting more value with fewer efforts. As such, the client wanted to build a self-service portal that enabled and empowered customers to pay their bills easily, subscribe/cancel services, and manage account-related tasks from any device, anytime and from any location.
The Solution
The company chose CloudTern to design a self-service portal for its customers.
CloudTern developed a single-user interface integrating existing tools and solutions such as Customer Relationship Management (CRM), Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), order management, sales and customer support using Service-oriented Architecture and Microservices.
The site contains useful information such as how-to guides, articles, videos, helpful tips, FAQs and account-related processes such as password reset, creating a service request, profile update, etc.
Key Benefits
The self-service portal enabled customers to view all account-related information from a central dashboard. Be it checking the current plan, subscribing to a new service or paying monthly bills, customers were able to access the information from any device and any location. With easy payments and support augmented with a personal touch, the portal delivered an enhanced customer experience to end-users.
The self-service portal delivered several benefits to the client. Firstly, account-related calls to customer support were significantly reduced. As such, maintenance and HR personnel expenses got reduced and revenues increased. The client was able to portray a better brand image, deliver a superior user experience and explored new markets to gain new customers.
Reduced account-related queries
Single-user Interface
Well-designed site with easy navigation
Digital service with a human touch
Increased revenues
Superior customer experience
Enhanced brand image
Prev
Next
CloudTern offers highly scalable software solutions that enable organizations to securely drive innovation into business processes
Contacts
+1 (945) 216-6923
info@cloudtern.com
8105 Rasor Blvd Ste 236
Plano, TX – 75024
Linkedin-in
Twitter
Instagram
Services
Quick Links
© 2025 — CloudTern. All Rights Reserved.