Amazon S3 Cloud Storage Solution - CloudTern Solutions
Amazon S3 Cloud Storage Solution
Project Name
Amazon S3 Cloud Storage Solution
Client
Pareteum
Our Role
Telecom CDR & Cloud Storage Solution
“CDR delivery and storage was a huge concern for us. CloudTern designed a cost-effective cloud storage solution that facilitated seamless movement and management of data across the infrastructure. “
John Gordon
Manager
CPaaS provider Pareteum chose CloudTern for its CDR delivery and storage management needs. CloudTern designed a cost-effective cloud storage solution using Amazon S3, enabling the company to efficiently ingest and manage huge volumes of data while significantly reducing cloud storage costs.
Company Overview
Pareteum is a leading provider of Communications Platform-as-a-Service (CPaaS) with headquarters in New York, USA and regional offices located in Europe, Latin America, Asia-Pacific, Middle East and Africa. The Pareteum communications platform seamlessly connects people and devices across the globe via text, SMS, data, voice, video and content enablement. The platform is highly scalable and gives better control over API-based communications.
The Challenge
The Pareteum CPaaS platform enables organisations to create and manage seamless communication channels between devices and customers via a wide variety of communication services.
As such, the company had to deal with humungous amounts of data that varied in volume, velocity and format. Managing CDR delivery and storage was the main concern.
As the data grew, scaling on-premise data-center capacities became overly complex and expensive. The company was looking for a cost-effective cloud strategy to ingest huge volumes of data while ensuring that the costs don’t skyrocket and remain within the company’s IT budgets.
The Solution
The company chose CloudTern to design and implement cost-effective cloud storage and data management strategy.
CloudTern came up with Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) which offered low-latency and high-scalable storage service, enabling Pareteum to store and access data from any location with ease.
By simply choosing the geographical region and creating a bucket, Pareteum was able to quickly start storing and managing petabytes of structured and unstructured data with ease.
The data stored in an S3 bucket is automatically replicated. Amazon Glacier was used to archive and backup data to optimize costs.
Key Benefits
Cost-effective cloud storage
Ease of data migration
High Availability, Highly scalable, Reliable
Secure environment with IAM policies
Simplified Management
CloudTern’s cloud storage solution allowed Pareteum to access data from any location. With 99.99% uptime, the company gained high availability. S3 buckets are governed by IAM policies which makes the data environment secure. Moreover, the company didn’t have to predict and plan storage costs. You only pay for the services used and scale on-demand. Amazon S3 standard comes at a low price of $0.023 per GB for the first 50 TB /month and then gets reduced to $0.022 per GB for the next 450 TB/month and $0.021 for the next 500 TB/month. Furthermore, by moving archive and backup data to Amazon Glacier which costs only $0.004 per month, Pareteum was able to significantly save costs.
That’s not all! Ease of migration is another significant benefit. Pareteum is able to move data to and from S3 buckets using various options such as S3 CLI, Glacier CLI and rsync. The simple and user-friendly web interface makes it easy to monitor and manage the service. The company was able to define own replication rules, lifecycle policies and inventory configurations, request metrics configurations, analysis of storage classes etc.
Prev
Next
CloudTern offers highly scalable software solutions that enable organizations to securely drive innovation into business processes
Contacts
+1 (945) 216-6923
info@cloudtern.com
8105 Rasor Blvd Ste 236
Plano, TX – 75024
Linkedin-in
Twitter
Instagram
Services
Quick Links
© 2025 — CloudTern. All Rights Reserved.