Managed Network Services - CloudTern Solutions
Our Services
Managed Network Services
Our Managed Network Services Offerings
Managed SD-WAN
Instantly spin up scalable, secure, smart and programmable SD-WAN connections on any platform, location, connection and deployment to connect data centers, colocation facilities and remote locations across the infrastructure.
Managed Wi-Fi
End-to-end Wi-Fi services comprising RF survey, network design, installation, monitoring and maintenance for improved performance and optimized costs.
Managed Router Services
End-to-end router managed services covering design, installation, configuration and management for optimized bandwidth and improved traffic flow across multiple locations.
Managed Security Services
AI-powered, automation enabled programmatic security framework to securely manage every type of security incident across all devices in the infrastructure.
About Managed Network Services
The exponential rise of mobile devices and dynamically changing Wi-Fi networks pose new security challenges for organizations. While enterprises have the luxury of in-house IT professionals to dynamically design and manage constantly changing Wi-Fi networks and devices, small and medium businesses lack the budgets and expert staff to optimize and manage networks. This is where CloudTern Managed Network Services come to the rescue.
Managed network services is a model of outsourcing operations, maintenance and management of network apps, services and functions to a reliable network management company. CloudTern offers end-to-end network management solutions, right from basic network access and LAN/WAN services to
SD-WAN and virtual network services. In addition, CloudTern offers network administration, firewall security, unified communications and virtual private networks. We take pride in optimizing your WAN environments.
Why CloudTern Managed Network Services?
Not every SMB has the budget to acquire world-class network solutions. With CloudTern, you get access to certified network professionals working with the best network management tools. We continuously monitor your network for cyber threats and security breaches and automatically apply patches and updates. Unexpected events are automatically detected and mitigated. It means, your IT staff are relieved from network tasks and can concentrate on delivering more value to your customers. We design the right network strategy with disaster recovery and data backup solutions that boosts your network performance while reducing operational costs.
More with us
Build smarter software-defined networks optimized for performance and coverage to stay ahead of the competition!
Join with us
Our services
How We Can Help?
Network Design
Secure, scalable, resilient and future-proof network architecture designed from scratch, assembling all elements such as endpoints, assets, users, devices, LAN/WAN components, IP addressing and incorporating security processes and network design best practises
Network Configuration
Network configuration management throughout the lifecycle of every device on the network with network device discovery, configuration backup, configuration change management, network operations automation and compliance
Network Monitoring
Networking monitoring and management services comprising availability monitoring, configuration monitoring, performance monitoring and cloud infrastructure monitoring that deliver better visibility into network operations
Network Security
Battle-tested, end-to-end network security design covering antivirus, app security, access controls, VPNs, security firewalls, endpoint protection and network analytics
WAN Optimization
Optimization of WAN environments with prioritized traffic flow for mission-critical apps, data deduplication, data compression, data caching, data protocol streamlining and bandwidth management for improved data transfer, increased efficiency and reduced costs.
DDoS Protection
Detect and redirect abnormal traffic flows using BGP/DNS Routing, filter DDoS traffic and analyze security logs for improved resilience with CloudTern DDoS Protection Service
featured Projects
Our Case Studies
Unified CDR Management solution
AWS
Kafka
VoIP Monitoring Platform – IoT
AWS
IoT
Mobile Application
Churn Prediction
AI
Machine Learning
CloudTern offers highly scalable software solutions that enable organizations to securely drive innovation into business processes.
Contacts
+1 (945) 216-6923
info@cloudtern.com
8105 Rasor Blvd Ste 236
Plano, TX – 75024
Linkedin-in
Twitter
Instagram
Services
Quick Links
© 2025 — CloudTern. All Rights Reserved.