Penetration Testing for MVNE Platform - CloudTern Solutions
Penetration Testing for MVNE Platform
Project Name
Penetration Testing for MVNE Platform
Client
Telecom Operator Spanish
Our Role
Better secure the IT environment.
A most respected Spanish telecom operator chose CloudTern to evaluate the security of the company’s IT infrastructure. CloudTern performed penetration testing using the ‘Blackbox’ model to identify security vulnerabilities and offered remedial recommendations to better secure the IT environment.
The Challenge
As a leader in the Spanish telecom space, the client stores and manages the data of millions of customers. So, the company was always concerned about data security and integrity.
With increasing cyber-attacks everywhere, the company wanted to run penetration testing to evaluate the strength of the security of the IT infrastructure.
Another concern is high availability. As the most respected telecom operator, the company’s resources should always be available.
As such, the telecom operator was looking for a reliable security expert to assess the efficiencies of security mechanisms across the infrastructure.
The Solution
The company chose CloudTern to perform penetration testing on its IT infrastructure. CloudTern performed pen testing to evaluate the company’s ability to defend the network, apps and data from cyber-attacks.
CloudTern appointed an expert team to perform black-box penetration testing wherein the team was only provided with the target website and application URLs. The team gathered as much information as possible about the target from different online sources to map the attacking surface.
Testing tools such as Aircrack-ng, Acunetix, Metasploit, OpenVAS, XSpider, etc. were used to run the penetration testing and gain access to the target network. This step helped the team identify the security vulnerabilities. The team also identified the time for maintaining access to assess the potential impact of an attack.
The testing was done on mobile apps, networks, containers, cloud infrastructure, web apps, containers, and IoT devices (Embedded devices, CI/CD Pipeline and APIs. A detailed report with actionable insights was generated at the end.
After the testing was completed, the team removed all artifacts to ensure that no trace is left such that real attackers won’t leverage them to attack the network in the future.
Key Benefits
The CloudTern team ran deep penetration testing and generated a detailed security assessment report containing the details of each step, how the team was able to penetrate the system, security vulnerabilities identified and the potential impact of the attack. The report also contained recommendations for remediation. Using this report, the company was able to evaluate defense mechanisms and make changes to security measures accordingly. By doing so, the company was also able to ensure regulatory compliance while enjoying business continuity. Most importantly, the company was able to protect critical data/assets and save millions of dollars from costly data breaches.
Identification and prioritization of security risks
Prevention of hacking attacks
Increased business continuity
Avoided costly security breaches
Complying with industry regulations and standards
Prev
Next
CloudTern offers highly scalable software solutions that enable organizations to securely drive innovation into business processes
Contacts
+1 (945) 216-6923
info@cloudtern.com
8105 Rasor Blvd Ste 236
Plano, TX – 75024
Linkedin-in
Twitter
Instagram
Services
Quick Links
© 2025 — CloudTern. All Rights Reserved.