Unified CDR Management solution - CloudTern Solutions
Unified CDR Management solution
Project Name
Unified CDR Management solution
Client
SONOC
Our Role
CDR Management Solution
Leading MVNE Platform Provider chose CloudTern to develop a unified CDR management solution that centralized CDR database and facilitated real-time analytics and thereby enabled the company to improve telecom operations.
Company Overview
Our Customer is a leading provider of MVNE Platform. Based in the US, the company offers Platform to launch MVNO business.
The Challenge
MVNE Platform Provider offers telecommunication services in the US, Singapore, Spain, Belgium.
Platform has different network elements and that generates CDRs in different formats and in huge volumes. Being a Platform provider we have to unify data and analyse and understand about the CDR.
Legacy CDR processing engine is not able handle huge volumes of data and storage in subsets taking a lot of storage.
Without real-time analytics, it was difficult for the company to identify customer behaviour.
The company was looking for a technology partner to create a central MongoDB cluster with Kafka.
The Solution
CloudTern created a MondoDB cluster in AWS and Kafka distributed messaging system.
While MongoDB provided the power to manage large unstructured data, Kafka offered the flexibility of distributed messaging system with real-time batch processing.
This unified CDR solution facilitated a unified platform to handle CDR data feeds in real-time.
Key Benefits
CDR’s are stored in
a MongoDB cluster​
0% data loss​
Real time analytics​
As Kafka runs as a cluster on multiple servers located in multiple locations, Customer was able to pull out data from multiple servers across the infrastructure.
This aggregate data is pulled into a central dashboard, enabling the administrators to monitor and manage the entire CDR data from a central location. Kafka delivers high throughput and low latency that adds up to the benefits.
With CloudTern unified CDR solution, users are able to filter the calls, play selected files and generate call lists based on ‘day-wise’, ‘hour-wise’ or other custom reports.
The highly scalable architecture of Apache Kafka enabled Customer to instantly scale up resources according to changing network traffic.
With real-time analytics, Customer was able to identify and instantly resolve quality issues and reduce downtimes while significantly improving the performance of the network.
Prev
Next
CloudTern offers highly scalable software solutions that enable organizations to securely drive innovation into business processes
Contacts
+1 (945) 216-6923
info@cloudtern.com
8105 Rasor Blvd Ste 236
Plano, TX – 75024
Linkedin-in
Twitter
Instagram
Services
Quick Links
© 2025 — CloudTern. All Rights Reserved.