AI Archives - Page 4 of 4 - CloudTern Solutions
AI Tag
March 31, 2022
by
Ramu Kambalapuram
Blog
IoT for Telecommunications
The telecommunication sector is going through a tricky phase right now. The advent of the 5G technology augmented with the software-defined virtual networks is disrupting the industry on one side, opening a new landscape of opportunities. On the other side, there is tough competition from VoIP-based platforms such as Skype and Zoom. With an increased commoditization, telecoms are able to cut prices and stay in the competition. However, they had to take a hit on the Average Revenue per User (ARPU). Another important challenge is customer churn. With shrinking IT budgets and high competition, customer retention becomes a challenge for most telecoms. This is where IoT comes to the rescue.
How does IoT help Telecom Companies?
IoT technology is rapidly evolving. Telecoms can take full advantage of IoT networks as they already possess the infrastructure in the form of mobile phone towers and internet cables. When 5G is added to it, telecoms can build high-speed networks with low latency and accommodate a wide range of IoT devices wherein seamless connection is established between interconnected devices and people in the massive ecosystem. Telecoms can build IoT platforms that enable customers to connect and manage multiple endpoints and run IoT apps while managing the infrastructure from a central dashboard.
IoT with 5G offer high-speed networks with expanded bandwidths and low latencies to run real-time processes. Energy efficiency is a big advantage as companies can run millions of connected devices with minimal power consumption. With an IoT platform, telecoms can reduce churn while gaining new customers to increase revenues. Moreover, they can create new job opportunities and thereby contribute to the growth of the local economy as well.
IoT Use Cases for Telecom
While the basic functionality of IoT for telecoms is to provide connectivity services for the customer IoT devices, the use cases can be extended to industry-specific end-user apps as well.
IoT in home automation enables customers to control electronic devices at home using mobile apps or voice assistants.
Remote Asset Monitoring of physical assets such as orders, vehicles, patients etc. using a mobile application in real-time, benefitting healthcare, retail, logistics and several other industries.
Telecoms can perform Data Storage and Management (backend processes) for client applications.
Data Analytics services comprising storage of IoT-generated data and delivering actionable insights to clients using AI/ML algorithms.
Telecoms can offer cloud-based PaaS and SaaS services wherein clients can use IoT-based platforms to develop, deliver and manage software.
Build smart cities with autonomous vehicle systems
Choosing the Right IoT Platform
As the IoT industry is still in the nascent stage and evolving, telecoms have to either build a custom IoT platform from scratch or customize a public cloud IoT offering. When you choose to build a custom IoT platform, you get the flexibility and feature-set that tightly integrates with your existing infrastructure. However, it is a time consuming and costly affair. In addition to development costs, you should also consider the fact that you need to build and manage your own cloud. Alternatively, telecoms can customize AWS IoT or Azure IoT platforms quickly and reduce initial investment costs. The advantage of public cloud IoT platforms is that you can use extensive network services that are secure and reliable. However, you’ll incur cloud usage costs.
The Bottom-line
Telecoms struggling with increased competition and reduced margins can tap into new revenue streams by exploring IoT capabilities for the telecom industry. Not only can telecoms reduce customer churn but they can expand their services and solutions to gain a competitive edge in the market with IoT solutions.
CloudTern is a leading provider of
IoT-based telecom solutions
. Be it developing an end-to-end IoT platform or providing IoT consulting services, CloudTern is here to help!
Call us right now to fly high on the IoT plane!
Read More
Share
August 31, 2021
by
admin
Blog
Top 5 Advantages of using Docker
As businesses are aggressively moving workloads to cloud environments, containerization is turning out to be a necessity for every business in recent times.
Containerization enables organizations to virtualize the operating system and deploy applications in isolated spaces called containers packed with all libraries, dependencies, configuration files etc.
The container market is rapidly evolving. According to MarketsandMarkets, the global application containerization market earned a revenue of $1.2 billion in 2018 and is expected to touch $4.98 billion by 2023, growing at a CAGR of 32.9% during 2018 and 2023.
The Dominance of Docker
The containerization market is dominated by Docker. In fact, it was Docker that made the containerization concept popular. According to Docker, the company hosts 7 million+ applications with 13 billion+ monthly image downloads and 11 million+ developers involved in the process. Adobe, Netflix, PayPal, Splunk, Verizon are some of the enterprises that use Docker.
Virtual Machine Vs Docker
Here are the top 5 benefits of using Docker:
1) Consistent Environment
Consistency is a key benefit of Docker wherein developers run an application in a consistent environment right from design and development to production and maintenance. As such, the application behaves the same way in different environments, eliminating production issues. With predictable environments in place, your developers spend more time on introducing quality features to the application instead of debugging errors and resolving configuration/compatibility issues.
2) Speed and Agility
Speed and agility is another key benefit of Docker. It allows you to instantly create containers for every process and deploy them in seconds. As you don’t have to boot the OS, the process is done lightning fast. Moreover, you can instantly create, destroy, stop or start a container with ease. By simply creating a configuration file using YAML, you can automate deployment and scale the infrastructure at ease.
Docker increases the speed and efficiency of your CI/CD pipeline as you can create a container image and use it across the pipeline while running non-dependant tasks in parallel. It brings faster time to market and increases productivity as well. The ability to commit changes and version-control Docker images enable you to instantly roll back to an earlier version in case a new change breaks the environment.
3) Efficiently Management of Multi-Cloud Environments
Multi-cloud environments are gaining popularity in recent times. In a multi-cloud environment, each cloud comes with different configurations, policies and processes and are managed using different infrastructure management tools. However, Docker containers can be moved across any environment. For instance, you can run a container in an AWS EC2 instance and then seamlessly move it to a Google Cloud Platform environment with ease. However, keep in mind that data inside the container is permanently destroyed once the container is destroyed. So, ensure that you back up the required data.
4) Security
Docker environments are highly secure. Applications that are running in Docker containers are isolated from each other wherein one container cannot check the processes running in another container. Similarly, each container possesses its own resources and doesn’t interact with the resources of other containers. They use the resources allocated to them. As such, you gain more control over the traffic flow. When the application reaches its end of life, you can simply delete its container, making a clean app removal.
5) Optimized Costs
While features and performance are key considerations of any IT product, Return on Investment (ROI) cannot be ignored. The good thing with Docker is that it enables you to significantly reduce infrastructure costs. Right from employee strength to server costs, Docker enables you to run applications at minimal costs when compared with VMs and other technologies. With smaller engineering teams and reduced infrastructure costs, you can significantly save on operational costs and increase your ROI.
Read More
Share
1
2
3
4
CloudTern offers highly scalable software solutions that enable organizations to securely drive innovation into business processes
Contacts
+1 (945) 216-6923
info@cloudtern.com
8105 Rasor Blvd Ste 236
Plano, TX – 75024
Linkedin-in
Twitter
Instagram
Services
Quick Links
© 2025 — CloudTern. All Rights Reserved.