SQLServer Migration to Cloud - CloudTern Solutions
SQLServer Migration to Cloud
Project Name
SQLServer Migration to Cloud
Client
TATA Communications Limited
Our Role
Migrating database to AWS Cloud
The Challenge
The client wants to upgrade systems on-premises as it can be expensive and challenging to scale as business needs grow. It involves significant upfront costs as it inclines the need to purchase sufficient hardware to maintain it in dedicated IT support systems. An additional requirement of dedicated rack space on the premises takes place. So, the client prefers to move from on-premises to cloud services.
The Solution
While organizations may not have complete control over their cloud databases, which can make it difficult to monitor performance or resolve issues. Cloud Tern Solutions serves first class!
For monthly deployments, we can provide a comprehensive end-to-end solution that includes planning, testing, and deployment of software updates and patches to ensure systems are always up-to-date and secure.
Our installation and configuration services provide hassle-free installation and configuration of software and hardware systems. We can also troubleshoot any issues during installation or configuration, saving time and resources.
Regarding disaster recovery, we specialize in planning and implementing solutions that will minimize downtime and data loss. We can design and implement disaster recovery and business continuity strategies that will keep businesses running smoothly.
Key Benefits
Prevention of data loss leads to faster data recovery: In the event of data loss, having a backup system in place ensures that data can be quickly recovered, which minimizes downtime and helps businesses get back up and running as soon as possible.
Faster time to market: Having a reliable backup and recovery system enables businesses to restore lost or corrupted data quickly, allowing them to maintain their production schedules and meet deadlines. This, in turn, makes it strong security while bringing products or services to market faster
Scalability and flexibility: Backup and recovery solutions are designed to be scalable, allowing businesses to expand their data protection infrastructure as their needs grow easily. Additionally, these solutions are often flexible, offering a range of data protection mechanisms to meet a variety of needs.
Cost savings: Data loss can be costly, both in terms of lost productivity and potential legal or regulatory consequences. Having a backup and recovery system in place can help minimize these costs by reducing downtime.
Better accessibility & collaboration: Backup and recovery solutions often include features that make it easier to provide assurance to businesses.
Prev
Next
CloudTern offers highly scalable software solutions that enable organizations to securely drive innovation into business processes
Contacts
+1 (945) 216-6923
info@cloudtern.com
8105 Rasor Blvd Ste 236
Plano, TX – 75024
Linkedin-in
Twitter
Instagram
Services
Quick Links
© 2025 — CloudTern. All Rights Reserved.