ISV - CloudTern Solutions
ISV
Independent Software Vendors (ISV)
Migrate, Develop and Run in the Cloud with CloudTern
Your Digital Transformation Partner !
Contact Today
Migrate to the Cloud
Seamlessly and securely migrate to the cloud with CloudTern’s proven and unique roadmap to quickly leverage cloud benefits.
.01
Develop in the Cloud
Cost-effectively build and deliver highly scalable applications in the cloud taking advantage of CloudTern’s cloud application development services.
.02
Managed Services
Focus on improving product features and enhancing customer experience while we manage your cloud infrastructure.
.03
About Us
Empowering ISVs in Leveraging Digital Transformation
In today’s DevOps-driven IT environments, ISVs find it hard to compete or sustain the competition using product-oriented business models. Cloud, AI, ML, Mobility, Big Data and analytics, IoT technologies add up to this challenge. Turning towards a customer-centric approach and building feature-rich UI/UX products is the key.
CloudTern Digital Transformation partner is here to help! Now, seamlessly migrate to the cloud, develop future-proof applications in the cloud and continuously deliver quality products to your customers while enjoying significant cost reductions.
After a thorough technical feasibility study, financial implications and cloud readiness assessment, we prepare a unique and customized cloud migration strategy identifying the right cloud service and deployment model and securing and optimizing cloud services.
Gain faster time to market, reduce operational costs while delivering higher customer experience with CloudTern Digital Transformation solutions!
About Us
Let’s work together
Sit back and relax while CloudTern is Orchestrating Seamless Migration to the Cloud
+1 (945) 216-6923
info@cloudtern.com
Get in touch
About Us
What We Offer
Cloud Migration
AWS Cloud Migration
Google Cloud Platform Migration
Azure Cloud Migration
Phased Workload Migration
Cloud Application Development
Customized software Frameworks
Apache Kafka Distributed Messaging System
Microservices architecture
Containerization
Application Modernization
Refactoring Legacy Apps
Application Re-engineering /Recoding
Application Containerization
Legacy to Cloud Migration
Remediation Services
DevOps Best Practises
Previous Projects
Our Case Studies
All
Unified CDR Management solution
VoIP Monitoring Platform – IoT
Churn Prediction
CloudTern offers highly scalable software solutions that enable organizations to securely drive innovation into business processes.
Contacts
+1 (945) 216-6923
info@cloudtern.com
8105 Rasor Blvd Ste 236
Plano, TX – 75024
Linkedin-in
Twitter
Instagram
Services
Quick Links
© 2025 — CloudTern. All Rights Reserved.