VoIP Monitoring Platform - IoT - CloudTern Solutions
VoIP Monitoring Platform – IoT
Project Name
VoIP Monitoring Platform – IoT
Client
Texas Based IoT Product Company
Our Role
Cloud Platform Development
The Challenge
ReplyCloud provides Voice over IP (VoIP) services to its customers over the customer LAN services.
Being dependant on customer LAN services, the company experienced frequent network issues. As such, the company had to spend more resources on troubleshooting network issues. Not only was this issue affecting the ROI of the company but it was also affecting the company reputation.
USA Telecom needed a VoIP monitoring solution that can proactively monitor the health of VoIP devices so that downtimes can be minimized.
The company was looking for a technology partner who can monitor their VoIP phones and give them an indication of the status of the VoIP phones.
The Solution
ReplyCloud chose CloudTern to develop a VoIP health monitoring system. CloudTern designed a VoIP monitoring solution using IoT technology.
A small IoT device was designed that monitored the VoIP health service and alerted the concerned people in case an undesired state is detected.
This IoT device is integrated with a cloud server so that the data is securely stored in the cloud server and is made available to everyone who has access rights. So, employees with proper access rights are able to monitor the health of VoIP devices from anytime, anywhere and from any device.
CloudTern also designed a mobile app that comes with push notifications on call quality issues and firewall configuration change instances. Any deviation from the desired firewall configuration state is instantly reported.
Key Benefits
Provided proactive insights​
Giving access to real time data across all locations​
Giving notifications for call quality reports & Firewall configurations
Reduction of resources
(IT Managers in all locations)
With a simple IoT device and mobile app, ReplyCloud support team were able to get clear insights into VoIP device health and proactively monitor and manage entire VoIP infrastructure from a central dashboard.
By being able to check the status of any VoIP phone from anywhere, the company was able to ensure that every VoIP device is up and running in perfect condition.
As the IoT device is integrated with the cloud server, real-time data was made accessible to authorized users from all locations. The instant push notifications on call quality issues and firewall configuration changes helped the company to instantly resolve any technical issues and thereby reduced downtimes.
With this VoIP monitoring solution, USA Telecom was able to optimize resources and significantly save costs.
Prev
Next
CloudTern offers highly scalable software solutions that enable organizations to securely drive innovation into business processes
Contacts
+1 (945) 216-6923
info@cloudtern.com
8105 Rasor Blvd Ste 236
Plano, TX – 75024
Linkedin-in
Twitter
Instagram
Services
Quick Links
© 2025 — CloudTern. All Rights Reserved.