BSS Migration to AWS Cloud - CloudTern Solutions
BSS Migration to AWS Cloud
Project Name
BSS Migration to AWS Cloud
Client
Leading MVNE Platform Provider in Spain
Our Role
CapEx and OpEx cost savings
“Migrating our complexly configured BSS solutions to the cloud without affecting the customer experience was a challenge. CloudTern designed a cost-effective cloud migration strategy augmented with great teamwork that made the entire process seamless, smooth and productive. “
John Gordon
VP of Engineering
A Leading MVNE Platform provider in Spain chose CloudTern as its Systems Integrator for its BSS cloud migration project. CloudTern designed an AWS-based cost-effective cloud migration strategy and efficiently migrated BSS to the cloud, integrating on-prem and cloud apps and thereby enabling huge CapEx and OpEx cost savings.
Company Overview
The client is a leading MVNE platform provider in Spain. Backed by several years of experience and expertise in planning, implementing and managing telecom services, the company offers network enablement platforms and services such as provisioning of network elements, management of the network and BSS/OSS services etc. to mobile virtual network operators. The company caters to businesses of all sizes.
The Challenge
As a Mobile Virtual Network Enabler (MVNE), the company offers end-to-end telecommunication services to mobile virtual network operators across the region.
Today, customers are expecting personalization, self-service and omnichannel touchpoints. With on-prem BSS solutions, the company was missing out on cost optimization and delivering a superior customer experience.
This is what inspired the company to move its operations to the cloud. However, Operations Support Systems (OSS) and Business Support Systems (BSS) services that involve critical business operations such as order management, product management, customer management, revenue management etc. are considered the heart and soul of a telecom network.
Especially, BSS deals with customer-facing processes. As such, migrating BSS that contain massive data to the cloud without affecting network operations became a challenge.
As the world is entering a 5G revolution, re-architecting BSS solutions to leverage 5G opportunities while handling monetization challenges is the need of the hour.
The company was looking for a cost-effective cloud migration strategy to migrate BSS to the cloud.
The Solution
The company chose CloudTern to migrate BSS to the cloud. An on-premise BSS deployment is complex and contains customizations everywhere.
The company’s infrastructure comprises a lot of expensive hardware such as switches, tape libraries, storage racks, security devices etc. As such, there is no ‘one-route-fits-all’ option.
CloudTern designed a customized migration strategy with a gradual and stepwise approach, re-architecting and modernizing BSS.
AWS public cloud was chosen as the cloud vendor as it offers a suite of native services required for cloud BSS.
CloudTern chose AWS Config for AWS resource configuration management, AWS Lambda for data backup, Athena to analyze data, Systems Manager for infrastructure visibility and control, Amazon Quicksight for ML-based insights and CloudTrail for compliance and audit purposes.
Starting with the outer layer comprising front-end digital systems and gradually moving to deeper levels, CloudTern ensured cost-effective and seamless BSS migration to the cloud.
Key Benefits
With CloudTern’s cloud migration strategy, the company was able to seamlessly migrate BSS to the cloud. In addition, the company hugely benefitted from cost savings using the pay-per-use cloud model. Cloud BSS architecture is modular which means you can pick and choose the features you want and only pay for the infrastructure resources used. The biggest benefit is the ability to auto-scale resources against changing traffic. Moreover, it eliminated the complex task of configuring BSS. It just takes a few clicks to configure BSS in the cloud, resulting in a faster time to market. Software updates and patches are easy to apply which means BSS solutions are always up to date and secure. Furthermore, cloud BSS allowed the company to seamlessly integrate 3rd party solutions to extend its reach and tap into new markets.
Cost-effective and seamless BSS migration to the cloud
Faster time to market
Huge cost savings
High Availability, Highly scalable, Reliable
Secure environment with IAM policies
Simplified Management
Easy integration with 3
rd
party technologies
Prev
Next
CloudTern offers highly scalable software solutions that enable organizations to securely drive innovation into business processes
Contacts
+1 (945) 216-6923
info@cloudtern.com
8105 Rasor Blvd Ste 236
Plano, TX – 75024
Linkedin-in
Twitter
Instagram
Services
Quick Links
© 2025 — CloudTern. All Rights Reserved.