Hospitality Solutions - CloudTern Solutions
TRAVEL
Hospitality
AI-Powered integrated hospitality solutions connecting guest rooms, event sales and POS with an adaptable back office for a better customer experience and guest loyalty.
Contact Today
Hotel / Resorts Property Management
Deliver exceptional guest experiences with CloudTern’s comprehensive, guest-centric hotel property management services comprising accelerated check-in/checkout processes, improved housekeeping procedures, and automated conference and banquet management systems integrated with flexible backend processes.
.01
Travel and Tourism
End-to-end travel technology solutions comprising customized tour packages, B2C/B2B booking engine, customer management, payment integration, back-office support and personalized customer experiences.
.02
AI-Powered Chatbots
(Travel Companion)
Personalize guest experiences with AI-powered chatbots (Travel Companion) augmented with AR/VR technologies and IoT for automated bookings, and 24/7 customer support engaging customers in real-time.
.03
About Us
Showcasing the True Essence of the Hospitality Industry
Confused about choosing the right technologies and tools for your Hospitality needs. CloudTern is here to help!
The hospitality industry is one of the few industries that mostly serves a global audience. As such, technology places a crucial role in acquiring and serving customers. Right from making an inquiry and booking flight tickets and hotel rooms to receiving warm hospitality services throughout the journey, guests expect consistent and exceptional hospitality service throughout the journey.
CloudTern is a leading provider of cloud-native software solutions. Our guest-centric hospital industry seamlessly integrates front end operations, backend processes, POS, payment systems etc., enabling organizations to deliver flawless operations throughout the guest journeys.
That’s not all! Our AI-powered chatbots offer customized levels of personalization and automated solutions for every process involved in the guest journey while quickly answering every query via interactive conversations.
About Us
Let’s work together
As technology becomes mainstream in the hospitality industry, CloudTern stands at the forefront of this digital transformation, helping organizations deliver exceptional experiences throughout the guest lifecycle with flawless operations for increased revenues, improved loyalties and simplified operations!
+1 (945) 216-6923
info@cloudtern.com
Get in touch
About Us
What We Offer
Front-end Product Development
Travel Portal
B2B / B2C Booking Engine
GDS Connectivity
Travel Process Automation
Hotel PMS
Mobile App Development
Multi-language Support
Backend Processes
Inventory Management
XML API Integration
Payment Gateway Integration
Hotel PMS & POS Integration
Revenue Management
Office Management
Report & Analytics
Personalized Guest Experiences
Omni-channel strategy
Social Media Integration
Personalized Chatbots
Predictive Analytics
Customer Profiling
Credit Decision Tool
Previous Projects
Our Case Studies
All
Unified CDR Management solution
VoIP Monitoring Platform – IoT
Churn Prediction
CloudTern offers highly scalable software solutions that enable organizations to securely drive innovation into business processes.
Contacts
+1 (945) 216-6923
info@cloudtern.com
8105 Rasor Blvd Ste 236
Plano, TX – 75024
Linkedin-in
Twitter
Instagram
Services
Quick Links
© 2025 — CloudTern. All Rights Reserved.