Smart Missed Call Alert - CloudTern Solutions
Smart Missed Call Alert
Project Name
Smart Missed Call Alert
Client
LATAM MVNO
Our Role
Missed call alert solution
“As more and more were turning off the voicemail feature, we were losing out on call completion rates and getting a hit on our revenues. CloudTern developed a missed call alert solution that helped us to improve call completion rates and increase revenues. “
Javier G
Project Manager (IT)
A Leading LATAM MVNO chose CloudTern to develop a missed call alert solution. CloudTern developed this solution in a quick time and at a lesser price to bolster company revenues and increase customer satisfaction.
Company Overview
The client is a leading MVNO in the LATAM region. As a Virtual Mobile Network Operator, the company delivers communication services to various customers across the region. In addition to selling mobile phones, SIMs, call plans and data services, the company offers billing and management services for clients, product marketing and promotion, subscriber registration and other subscription services. The company helps Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) reach non-targeted segments and gain additional revenue streams.
The Challenge
The core business service and revenue source of the company are calls and data services. However, today’s customers are not using voicemails anymore and turning that feature off.
As such, call completion rates kept decreasing and in turn, the company was experiencing a negative impact on its revenues. Moreover, it was also causing an impact on the overall customer experience.
The company was looking for a solution to address this challenge.
The Solution
CloudTern came up with a ‘Missed Call Alert’ solution to handle call completion issues. This feature compensates for the voicemail issue by alerting the subscribers about phone calls they missed out.
When a customer who doesn’t have an active voicemail feature receives a phone call and is not able to answer it, the operator redirects this call to the ‘missed call alert’ solution.
The solution then explains to the caller the reason for the unanswered call (network busy, no signal etc.). In addition, the MCA solution sends an instant SMS alert to the customer about the missed call.
Key Benefits
Higher call completion rates
Competitive advantage
Quick ROI
Increased customer satisfaction
With CloudTern’s Missed call Alert solution, the company was able to boost call completion rates and gain a competitive advantage while increasing revenues. Moreover, the MVNO was able to deliver increased customer satisfaction as customers were able to receive notifications about call details without the need to turn on the voicemail feature. The company was able to gain quick ROI, in less than 2 months.
Prev
Next
CloudTern offers highly scalable software solutions that enable organizations to securely drive innovation into business processes
Contacts
+1 (945) 216-6923
info@cloudtern.com
8105 Rasor Blvd Ste 236
Plano, TX – 75024
Linkedin-in
Twitter
Instagram
Services
Quick Links
© 2025 — CloudTern. All Rights Reserved.