Electronic Medical Records - EMR - CloudTern Solutions
Electronic Medical Records – EMR
Project Name
Electronic Medical Records – EMR
Client
Healthcare Provider USA
Our Role
(EMR) management solution
“We wanted to eliminate human errors in the diagnosis of vision-related problems and speed up the entire process as well. CloudTern developed a bespoke decision support engine that helped us to achieve our goal. “
Dr. Joe Rouw
Founder
A US-based Vision Therapy Provider chose CloudTern for its Electronic Medical Records (EMR) management solution. CloudTern developed customized EMR software that enabled the healthcare provider to automate diagnosis procedures and reduce human errors.
Company Overview
The client is a leading provider of Vision Therapy in the US. Backed by an experienced Optometrists team that takes time to study each patient’s history, eye movement and vision needs, the client helped thousands of people, young and old, struggling with unresolved vision issues. With the right diagnosis and proven treatment procedures, the client has changed the lives of people through vision.
The Challenge
Riding on the digital cloud, healthcare providers are now able to manage patient records digitally. An Electronic Medical Report (EMR) is a digital record that contains a patient’s health data such as doctor notes, medical history, lab reports, medication, allergens, etc.
EMRs can be used to schedule doctor appointments, manage claims and payments and regulatory compliance. However, the client was using EMR software that was based on standards without any space for customization.
As such, the client was unable to automate certain tasks, add custom diagnostic rules, definitions and algorithms or implement automation. The client was looking for a reliable technology partner experienced in the healthcare space to develop a bespoke decision support engine for treating vision-related problems.
The Solution
The company chose CloudTern to design an efficient EMR solution with a bespoke decision support engine. CloudTern team studied the requirements thoroughly and performed brainstorming sessions to understand the workflow of the platform.
Prioritizing key features, CloudTern developed EMR software with a bespoke decision support engine that enabled the staff to define, implement and modify test rules with automation applied wherever possible.
CloudTern built the backend infrastructure using Python-based Django Framework and hosted it on AWS EC2. PostgreSQL and Amazon Relational Database Service were used to manage EMR data. The application interface was powered by HTML5, JQuery and Django templates. Amazon Simple Notification Service was installed to manage communication between microservices.
Key Benefits
With automation incorporated into the CloudTern decision support system, the vision therapy center is able to quickly diagnose vision-related issues based on predefined rules and prescribe the best therapy method. As such, optometrists can complete the vision therapy procedure with a few clicks and with improved efficiencies.
The app allowed customers to input vision-related data and choose the appropriate decision support engine that contains predefined rules for each vision issue. The engine scans this data, analyses it and instantly generates a prescription for the issue that might include recommended lifestyle, wellness procedures, diet and further tests. The staff can input rules into the engine without the intervention of the technology partner.
Integrated vision therapy management platform
Quick diagnosis of vision issues
Digital healthcare with a human touch
Auto-generated prescription
Improved efficiencies
Prev
Next
CloudTern offers highly scalable software solutions that enable organizations to securely drive innovation into business processes
Contacts
+1 (945) 216-6923
info@cloudtern.com
8105 Rasor Blvd Ste 236
Plano, TX – 75024
Linkedin-in
Twitter
Instagram
Services
Quick Links
© 2025 — CloudTern. All Rights Reserved.